# LaTeX

$\LaTeX$ is a powerful typesetting system that is widely used for creating well-formatted documents, particularly in academia, and research. It excels at handling complex mathematical equations, scientific notations, and high-quality formatting, which can be difficult to achieve with standard word processors.

In this course, many of the provided materials are written in Jupyter Notebooks, incorporating LaTeX for mathematical expressions and equations. 

For example 


$$
w \leftarrow w - \eta \frac{\partial L}{\partial w}
$$


 is hard to read. (Don't worry! after installing latex you should be able to see this equation rendered properly)

LateX renders equations beautifully, without which it is difficult to read and understand complex notations. Therefore we strongly recommend you to install LaTeX in your system.

## LaTeX installation

Depending on your operating system, choose the correct package from here: [https://www.latex-project.org/get/](https://www.latex-project.org/get/) . Below we provide the installation steps for a Linux platform. Installation steps in different operating systems may vary.


### On Fedora and RHEL-based Linux distributions

```bash
sudo dnf install texlive
```

Apart from Jupyter Notebooks we also use latex in plots for legends, titles and labelling axes. To convert text typesetted in latex, to images we require the `dvipng` package

```bash
sudo dnf install dvipng
```

Optionally you can install `type1cm` to include some high quality fonts.

The type1cm package allows you to use **Type 1 fonts***  with LaTeX, which can provide better font rendering and consistency compared to the default Computer Modern fonts.

```bash
sudo dnf --enablerepo=devel install texlive-type1cm
```

***Type 1 fonts** are a font format developed by Adobe in the late 1980s, known for their high quality and precise rendering.

Now you are all set to create professional looking notebooks with $\LaTeX$!